And a warning for you now.
Some disturbing video
we're going to show you
in the latest update
of the Israel-Hamas war.
These are some of the victims
after a deadly 24 hours in central Gaza,
the Hamas run health ministry
says at least
250 people were killed
from Israeli strikes.
70 of the victims
were at the Alma
Ghazi refugee camp Sunday.
Israel Defense Forces
told CNN, quote, in response to Hamas's
barbaric attacks,
the IDF is operating to dismantle
Hamas military
and administrative capabilities.
Also today,
Israeli's
Israel's Prime Minister,
Benjamin Netanyahu, was in Gaza,
his second trip to the battlefield,
vowing to continue the, quote,
long fight.
A day
after promising to intensify
the campaign against Hamas,
the IDF says since Friday, at least
15 of its soldiers
have been killed in Gaza.
CNN senior
international correspondent
Will Ripley is in Tel Aviv.
Will, tell us more about what
the prime minister said to troops today
during that visit to Gaza.
Well, he's certainly there to
send them encouragement
to say that their sacrifice
this was one of the deadliest weekends
in this 80 day war
for the Israeli military.
Just like
it was one of the deadliest
24 hour periods
in Gaza
since this war began back on October 7th.
80 days
and you have more than 20,600 people
who have been killed on the
Palestinian side,
along with more than 53,000 injuries.
And even though Israel's death toll
is is much lower,
they do say that
they are adhering, Jessica,
to international law,
that they are not
indiscriminately targeting civilians,
but they're going
after specific military targets
based on intelligence.
They say they're targeting changes
as different intelligence comes in.
And they say the fact that Hamas
is choosing to position itself in areas
densely packed with civilians
who are sheltering, civilians
who are displaced.
That that makes Hamas
just as culpable for this
skyrocketing death toll.
This is the Israeli argument
as it does Israel itself.
So despite that, we had this U.N.
resolution last week
that, of course,
that was quite watered down
from the original draft
that the United States vetoed
and then there were several delays
as they were rewriting it.
Israel says they're not going to stop
until they obtain their objective,
which is to eliminate
the leadership of Hamas.
And they have not
been able to do that yet.
Netanyahu
in northern Gaza,
where they have essentially obtained
operational control,
meeting with the troops
and saying that this war will continue
President Biden in a phone
call with the prime minister
of Israel,
encouraging a more slower,
more focused, streamlined technique.
Not such a such a large scale
casualty type of situation.
President Biden,
speaking with Democratic donors,
did on one instance
use the word
indiscriminate bombing,
which would be a violation
of international law.
But then the Israelis really said that
that one reference
from the US
president is not reflective
of their reality on the ground.
And so the fighting
absolutely continues
and you have a Christmas Day
where we have now
just had some of the deadliest incidents
since this war began 80 days ago.
And well, before we let you go,
the IDF has also revealed
these new details
about the Hamas tunnel network
that they've been trying to destroy
and penetrate there.
What can you tell us about that? Yeah,
so this is a network of tunnels
underneath Gaza.
Hamas has
has publicly stated
in the past that they've built
hundreds of miles of tunnels under Gaza.
Although the exact number
of the tunnels is unknown
and impossible to independently verify.
But what Israel says
they discovered and uncovered
is a very elaborate tunnel system,
very high tech with capability to house
weapons facilities, bunkers,
command headquarters,
even living quarters, apartments
for the Hamas senior leadership.
And they also say that
they recovered the bodies
of five Israeli hostages,
three of them soldiers,
two of them civilians.
And once those five bodies were recovered
and repatriated back here to Israel,
that underground tunnel complex
that was housing the Hamas leadership
and a lot of the leadership
operations was destroyed
Of course,
the leadership has since moved on
to another location, Jessica.
Israel trying to track them down.
But this is a fight
that experts say is likely to continue
for many, many months to come
because Hamas
is actually getting more resources
funneled in
from their supporters,
among whom
they've actually gained credibility
since October 7th
for keeping this fight going.
And so they're going to get more money.
They're going to get more weapons.
And Israel says
they are going to have to keep fighting.
Will Ripley for us tonight in Tel Aviv,
thanks so much for that reporting.
Well, we appreciate it.
And joining us
now to talk
a little bit more about
this is retired Army Brigadier
General Mark Kimmitt.
Thanks so much for being here
on this Christmas Day.
We really do appreciate it.
I want to start first
with with some of Will's reporting there.
We know that Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu has said
that Israeli forces are intensifying.
That's his word.
Operations inside the Gaza Strip.
What do you think an intensification
looks like at this point?
Well, I think it
means probably putting more ground troops
in to finish up the fight
inside of Gaza City, more ground troops
to finish the fight on units.
I think it also means
that they may step up
the amount of air attacks
that are going into both of those cities.
Because I think that they recognize
that international criticism
cannot continue at this level.
So the sooner they mop this up, sooner
they clean this up, the better.
And candidly,
that saves lives by speeding it up
simply because you won't be finding
as many days
when you hear a casualty tolls
of 250 plus.
And his statement,
Benjamin Netanyahu's
statement is coming
after the Secretary of State,
Antony Blinken, said last week
that this conflict, quote,
needs to move to a lower intensity phase.
So obviously opposite there.
You mentioned international support
and outside support for Israel.
What do you anticipate the U.S.
support for Israel
is going to look like as
we continue moving forward?
Well, look, these
types of operations,
consumers significant amount
of ammunition,
significant amount
of bombs, significant
amount of artillery rounds.
I think we will continue
to provide those assets,
which by the way, we are also
and need to continue to provide Ukraine.
I certainly hope
that part of those ammunition packages
include precision guided weapons
so that the Israelis
can be more precise in their attacks.
And let's talk more about the tunnels
that will also kind of
walk us through there
in his reporting before we came to you.
The IDF has this new disclosure
about what
the tunnel network looks like in Gaza,
kind of where they have been able to go.
And they also reported the bodies
that they found
of the five
Israeli hostages that had been recovered.
What are you taking away
from this information
about these tunnels?
And what the IDF is finding there?
Well, what
it indicates to me
is that for many, many years, money
that has been provided
by the United Nations
has been siphoned off
to buy the concrete, to buy the sand,
to buy the material
that is necessary
to build these 300 miles of tunnels
that had no other purpose
and to fight wars.
So I think it's
not only a criticism
of the barbarity of Hamas,
but it's an implicit criticism
of the U.N.
accounting for the money
that they've been providing
over the years.
Because you're you're saying that
that that has that's
where some of it has gone.
I don't know how else these tunnels
could have appeared
without the funding necessary.
And there's no other real source
of funding inside of
Gaza except the money provided
by the U.N.
and some money
that's been provided by Qatar.
And just quickly,
lastly, before I let you go, you know,
they talked about the five
bodies of the hostages
that were found there.
We're now closing in on three months
in this conflict, and
there are
still dozens,
over 100 hostages that remain in Gaza.
Where do you see this going?
Does that rely solely
on a diplomatic solution,
or is there
any sort of military intervention
that you see coming down the road at all?
I would be very surprised if even the
the highest
and military soldiers
inside the special operations
community in Israel
would be capable of bringing back
even a percentage of the hostages.
So it will depend on diplomacy.
But nonetheless, one of the messages
that Prime Minister
Netanyahu gave to his troops on
the ground is keep fighting
the soldiers
who need to focus on fighting
because they can't depend
on diplomacy to fix this.
And so they're going to keep fighting
until this war is over.
That seems to be certain.
All right.
Brigadier General Mark Kimmitt,
thanks so much again. We appreciate it.
And Merry Christmas to you
and you as well.